Hello again! We hope you enjoyed the  introduction to Super UHD.
In the next few modules, you will get an in-depth look at the features that really make Super UHD shine: IPS 4K Quantum Display, Super HDR, and webOS 3.0.
We like to call them The Super Three.
In this training, we’ll be going over the IPS 4K Quantum Display.
Let’s take a closer look at the panel that displays all of the great content your customer will be watching.
This panel packs a lot of punch—better viewing angles, higher peak brightness, improved black levels, and technologies that produce over one Billion Rich Colors!
What’s IPS, exactly? IPS stands for In-Plane Switching, which refers to the alignment of the liquid crystals within the display.
Compared to a conventional panel, IPS is able to deliver a wider viewing angle for your customers.
Color and contrast stay more consistent with less color wash even when viewed from extreme angles!
The colors on conventional panels distort even when sitting slightly off-center.
To show your customers just how great viewing angles are with IPS, just walk them to the extreme left or right of a Super UHD TV and point out how contrast and color stays consistent.
Now, do the same on a competitor TV, one with a VA panel. The difference is immediately obvious.
With LG 4K IPS, friends and family can all enjoy content at the same quality from anywhere in the room.
Next, let’s explore the panel’s higher peak brightness. One of the many display technologies LG introduced in 2016 is Ultra Luminance,
a feature that allows the viewer to enjoy more vivid images by improving the peak brightness by up to 30%.
The TV will automatically deliver unused electric current from darker areas of the image where light isn’t needed to the lighter parts that need it.
By using LG’s Local Dimming technology, the TV boosts the brightness where it is needed the most. Better contrast means better picture.
Ultra Luminance gives us the brightness aspect to better contrast. But what about the darkness aspect?
The issue of LCD TVs not being dark enough to show a full range of contrast is solved thanks to LG’s Local Dimming and True Black Panel technologies.
Super UHD Local Dimming technology enhances contrast and picture detail with a two-step process.
Step 1 involves selectively controlling the strength of the backlight, or LEDs, to ensure shadow detail and picture quality remains consistent.
Step 2 uses this same method to enhance the sharpness.
The Local Dimming process is automatically done when the TV receives signal that there is a dark part present in a scene.
Customers don’t have to turn on anything to make this magic happen.
The second technology LG’s Super UHD TVs use to improve black levels is what’s called a True Black Panel.
This is a film applied to the panel of the TV that reduces reflection by scattering ambient light that hits the screen.
With this antiglare reflection film, LG was able to realize a 20% improvement in reflection and glare over previous models.
In short, Local Dimming and True Black give customers a better contrast ratio, deeper black levels, and sharper images, so viewers can see the full beauty of dark scenes.
Ok, so we are off to a good start! Better panels with wider viewing angles? Check. Better contrast? Check. How about more colors?
To enhance color reproduction, LG’s Super UHD TVs have technologies built in that can reproduce
a broader color spectrum and render a wider range of hues,
enabling LG Super UHD TVs to display over one Billion Rich Colors!
This will allow your customers to view pictures with greater depth and realism.
The first of these technologies is Color Prime. With Color Prime,
thicker color filters are used to reproduce more colors in the spectrum.
Conventional LED TVs use a basic color filter that typically reproduces about 97%
of the colors in the HDTV color space.
However, with Color Prime technology, LG Super UHD TVs can expand that color by up to 125% of HDTV color space.
That’s 28% percent more color available that can be viewed on Super UHD TVs!
More colors mean more “true-to-life” images viewed on Super UHD TVs.
The second of the broad color technologies that build even further upon
Color Prime is Billion Rich Color technology.
Conventional LED TVs can only display combinations of 256 shades each of red, green, and blue,
which can create about 16.8 million colors. Sound like a lot? Maybe, but it actually isn’t.
The human eye can see much more. As a result, picture irregularities such as
contrast bandwidth and color banding can result.
With LG Super UHD TVs, each red, blue, and green subpixel can display 1,024 shades,
which creates over one Billion Colors! Now we’re talking.
How does this alleviate contrast bandwidth limitations?
Imagine you have a dark scene with bright elements, such a river illuminated by moonlight.
The TV will only accurately display shadow detail in the dark parts while washing out the bright parts,
or only accurately displays the bright parts while muddying dark areas of the screen.
With over one Billion Rich Colors, the content can have more detail in the bright areas
AND the dark areas of the image.
Color banding is also alleviated with over one Billion Rich Colors.
The fact that conventional TVs can only display 256 shades of each subpixel causes problems when
there are multiple shades of the same color that go from dark to light or vice versa.
Imagine a sky with a hot air balloon. The sky isn’t all one uniform shade, and since
conventional sets have a limited number of colors to choose from,
the cutoff between shades is sharp, leaving the customer viewing obvious bands in-between.
With technologies to display over one Billion Rich Colors, the transition is smooth between shades and
exhibits a scene more like you’d see in real life.
Let’s recap all of the amazing features that are realized with the IPS 4K Quantum Display.
Wider Viewing Angles that deliver more accurate color and contrast from virtually any seat in the house.
Higher Peak Brightness and better black levels
for contrast levels that will help deliver the best picture quality possible
Improved Black Levels and picture detail with Local Dimming,
And... Technologies that display over one Billion Rich Colors that allow for lifelike,
vivid images and virtually eliminate problems like contrast bandwidth issues and color banding.
Higher-quality beans make better coffee, and a higher-quality TV panel makes a better TV.
With LG’s IPS 4K Quantum Display, you will get a truly superior viewing experience.
If this is the cake, just wait until we get to the icing: Super HDR with Dolby VisionTM support.
Find out in the next module how these features make an already great viewing experience even better!
Take the quiz and test your knowledge! You can return to the training any time to review.